"Illyrian woodlands, echoing falls
      Of water, sheets of summer glass,
      The long divine Peneïan pass,
    The vast Akrokeraunian walls,

    "Tomohrit, Athos, all things fair,
      With such a pencil, such a pen,
      You shadow forth to distant men,
    I read and felt that I was there."

Lear was a man to whom, as to Tennyson's Ulysses,

    "All experience is an arch wherethrough
    Gleams that untravelled world."


    "There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who said, 'It is just as I feared!
    Two Owls and a Hen, four Larks and a Wren,
    Have all built their nests in my beard!'"

With the kindly fatalism which is the distinctive note of the foregoing
stanza, the sentiment of our next extract is in vivid contrast:--


    "There was an Old Man in a tree,
    Who was terribly bored by a bee;
    When they said, 'Does it buzz?' he replied, 'Yes, it does!
    It's a regular brute of a Bee.'"

To the foregoing verse an historic interest attaches, if, that is, we are
right in supposing it to have inspired Mr. Gilbert with his famous
"Nonsense-Rhyme in Blank Verse." We quote from memory:--

    "There was an Old Man of St. Bees,
    Who was stung in the arm by a wasp.
    When they asked, 'Does it hurt?' he replied, 'No, it doesn't,
    But I thought all the while 'twas a Hornet!'"


    "There was a Young Lady of Norway,
    Who casually sat in a doorway;
    When the doors queezed her flat, she exclaimed, 'What of that?'
    This courageous young person of Norway."

    "There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
    Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
    When they cried, 'Weedon Station!' she made no observation,
    But thought she should go back to Sweden."

      "They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,
      To a land all covered with trees.
    And they bought an Owl, and a useful Cart,
    And a pound of Rice, and a Cranberry Tart,
      And a hive of silvery Bees.
    And they bought a Pig, and some green Jack-Daws,
    And a lovely Monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of Ring-Bo-Ree,
      And no end of Stilton Cheese.
        _Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live.
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._
    And in twenty years they all came back,
      In twenty years or more,
    And every one said, 'How tall they've grown!
    For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
      And the hills of the Chankly Bore.'"


    "So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town,
    With a cheerful bumpy sound,
    As they toddled round and round.
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    'See, the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!'

    "But in going down an alley
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day,
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-Quack,
    And a Beetle and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

    "Then they whispered to each other,
    'O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on Beans and Bacon!'
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy, and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads,
    Till they toddled to their beds."


    "By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock-walls grow dark and brown,
    When the purple river rolls fast and dim,
    And the ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around," etc.


